core-updates.md, before:

- [ ] Make a backup of your Drupal instance. (I believe all the Alumni and Development sites have [Backup and Migrate](https://www.drupal.org/project/backup_migrate) installed, which is a nice GUI for downloading a zip or tarbell of the database and/or codebase and/or files. It's easy to install if it isn't already there. Otherwise, you can use [mysqldump](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2008/09/backup-and-restore-mysql-database-using-mysqldump/) or whatever tool you prefer.)
- [ ] Download the [latest release of your current Drupal version](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal).
- [ ] Extract the [tar ball or zip] Drupal package.
- [ ] Set your site on maintenance mode at /admin/settings/site-maintenance (D6) or /admin/config/development/maintenance (D7).
- [ ] Diff files such as .htaccess, robots.txt, sites/default/settings.php. in your existing codebase and make sure any customization, including database name, user, and password in settings.php, doesn't get erased when you ....
- [ ] Overwrite all the folders and files except /sites inside your original Drupal instance with the folders and files in the newer Drupal codebase.
- [ ] Login to your site as user=1, at example.columbia.edu?q=user.
- [ ] Run update.php by navigating to example.columbia.edu/update.php
- [ ] Follow the process to update your Drupal instance
- [ ] Clear site cache, either with drush cc all or through the Performance page in the admin GUI, at /admin/settings/performance (D6) or /admin/config/development/performance (D7)
- [ ] Disable maintenance mode.

Commit message:

including reminder to snapshot enabled modules

core-updates.md, after:

- [ ] Make a backup of your Drupal instance. (I believe all the Alumni and Development sites have [Backup and Migrate](https://www.drupal.org/project/backup_migrate) installed, which is a nice GUI for downloading a zip or tarbell of the database and/or codebase and/or files. It's easy to install if it isn't already there. Otherwise, you can use [mysqldump](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2008/09/backup-and-restore-mysql-database-using-mysqldump/) or whatever tool you prefer.) Make sure to snapshot the modules page, so you know what's enabled -- updating modules or core sometimes disables modules, seemingly at random, and it can be incredibly frustrating to troubleshoot "why isn't this working?"
- [ ] Download the [latest release of your current Drupal version](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal).
- [ ] Extract the [tar ball or zip] Drupal package.
- [ ] Set your site on maintenance mode at /admin/settings/site-maintenance (D6) or /admin/config/development/maintenance (D7).
- [ ] Diff files such as .htaccess, robots.txt, sites/default/settings.php. in your existing codebase and make sure any customization, including database name, user, and password in settings.php, doesn't get erased when you ....
- [ ] Overwrite all the folders and files except /sites inside your original Drupal instance with the folders and files in the newer Drupal codebase.
- [ ] Login to your site as user=1, at example.columbia.edu?q=user.
- [ ] Run update.php by navigating to example.columbia.edu/update.php
- [ ] Follow the process to update your Drupal instance
- [ ] Clear site cache, either with drush cc all or through the Performance page in the admin GUI, at /admin/settings/performance (D6) or /admin/config/development/performance (D7)
- [ ] Disable maintenance mode.
